README.md, before:

# MP0 
Gary Yip and Gordon Yang

# Goal of the Project
This project serves as an introduction into using Go. Most importantly, it highlights the use of go channels and go routines to achieve things sychronously and in parallel.
There are two main goals for this program. First is to ping ip addresses in parallel and to display and observe the statistics outputted from the ping. Second is to compare the results using GOMAXPROCS and see how it affects performance of the program.

# How to run the program
This program can be run in the terminal. Most importantly, it is set up to run on the Mac OS, but is known to come up with errors on Windows, and Linux systems are untested.

It can be run using go run main.go as shown below.

![Screen Shot 2021-09-19 at 6 08 01 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70530925/133944551-cddb7107-1d2a-435c-9bfb-d63ebf04d39c.png)

The program takes in user input through the command line, simply put the urls after the run command separated by a space.

![Screen Shot 2021-09-19 at 6 10 26 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70530925/133944594-153eb52f-ac53-4ec8-8cc3-69bfe1fa3eda.png)

# The Code

The program utilizes the os/exec golang package, which allows the use of shell commands in our program. Because this code was written on a Mac, it may use some arguments to the ping command that may not exist in Windows or Linux, specifically the -c argument to define how many times to ping.

The code makes use of go-routines to accomplish the task in parallel. It will also test how the program performs, by time needed to complete, based on the numbers of CPU as determined by the GOMAXPROCS value. It will iterate from GOMAXPROCS(1) all the way to the max value.

At the end, the code will display a list that shows the durations calculated over the whole program, the durations are calculated in milliseconds.

Below is a screenshot showing a sample output running the program with just one argument.

![Screen Shot 2021-09-19 at 9 49 43 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70530925/133950626-2fe868d3-03e4-41b1-8129-8afef98b269a.png)

As can be seen from the example output above, with only one argument (google.com) the time needed to ping is pretty much the same regardless of CPU value. However, once we add more websites to ping, it shows a very stark difference.

# Resources Used

This code was written with the help of the following resources.

Finding max parallelism https://gist.github.com/peterhellberg/5848304

Use of goroutines https://gobyexample.com/goroutines

Using shell commands to run ping https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6182369/exec-a-shell-command-in-go

String functions in go https://gobyexample.com/string-functions

Commit message:

few minor changes to graphs

README.md, after:

# MP0
Gary Yip and Gordon Yang

# Goal of the Project
This project serves as an introduction into using Go. Most importantly, it highlights the use of go channels and go routines to achieve things sychronously and in parallel.
There are two main goals for this program. First is to ping ip addresses in parallel and to display and observe the statistics outputted from the ping. Second is to compare the results using GOMAXPROCS and see how it affects performance of the program.

# How to run the program
This program can be run in the terminal. Most importantly, it is set up to run on the Mac OS, but is known to come up with errors on Windows, and Linux systems are untested.

It can be run using go run main.go as shown below.

![Screen Shot 2021-09-19 at 6 08 01 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70530925/133944551-cddb7107-1d2a-435c-9bfb-d63ebf04d39c.png)

The program takes in user input through the command line, simply put the urls after the run command separated by a space.

![Screen Shot 2021-09-19 at 6 10 26 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70530925/133944594-153eb52f-ac53-4ec8-8cc3-69bfe1fa3eda.png)

# The Code

The program utilizes the os/exec golang package, which allows the use of shell commands in our program. Because this code was written on a Mac, it may use some arguments to the ping command that may not exist in Windows or Linux, specifically the -c argument to define how many times to ping.

The code makes use of go-routines to accomplish the task in parallel. It will also test how the program performs, by time needed to complete, based on the numbers of CPU as determined by the GOMAXPROCS value. It will iterate from GOMAXPROCS(1) all the way to the max value.

At the end, the code will display a list that shows the durations calculated over the whole program, the durations are calculated in milliseconds.

Below is a screenshot showing a sample output running the program with just one argument.

![Screen Shot 2021-09-19 at 9 49 43 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70530925/133950626-2fe868d3-03e4-41b1-8129-8afef98b269a.png)

As can be seen from the example output above, with only one argument (google.com) the time needed to ping is pretty much the same regardless of CPU value. However, once we add more websites to ping, it shows a very stark difference.

Below is a scatter plot of the GOMAXPROCS # as the x-axis, and the runtime in milliseconds as the y-axis. We make use of the gonum package for golang, which allows us to generate an image of a plot based on (x,y) inputs.

# Resources Used

This code was written with the help of the following resources.

Finding max parallelism https://gist.github.com/peterhellberg/5848304

Use of goroutines https://gobyexample.com/goroutines

Using shell commands to run ping https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6182369/exec-a-shell-command-in-go

String functions in go https://gobyexample.com/string-functions

Generating graphs in go https://github.com/gonum/gonum
